
## Project Proposal

This project uses Dynamic Difficulty Adjustment (DDA) and a Large Language Model (LLM), such as OpenAI, to generate and control opponent Pokémon teams.

The player uses their own team of 6 Pokémon. After each battle, the system adjusts the difficulty based on whether the player won and how many moves the battle took. The next opponent team is generated by the LLM based on the updated difficulty level.

Higher difficulty creates stronger, more strategic Pokémon teams. Lower difficulty creates simpler and more forgiving teams.

## Current Features

- Adjusts difficulty after each battle
- Generates a 6-Pokémon opponent team using an LLM
- Changes team strength based on difficulty percentage
- Includes Pokémon roles, hp, attack, and shows hp remaining and damage, also in tune with type effective table. 

## Current Main Files

- `difficulty.py`
  - Contains the existing difficulty adjustment function
  - Contains the existing LLM team generation function
  - Runs simple test calls
  - Current model serves as potential prototype/baseline. Future changes (for example giving hints of type effectiveness at beginner level, or refining the scoring function may be necessary).  ALSO MAY ADD GIMMICKS (mega/ tera/ z move/ gigantamax etc) 
- `player_team.py` 
    - Currently has a preset generally balanaced team. 
    - MAY  PLAN TO UPDATE THIS TO ASK FOR AN INPUT TEAM WITH LEGALITY CHECKS. 
- `battle_state.py`
    - Currently only handes single battles.
    - MAY PLAN TO UPDATE THIS TO HANDLE DOUBLE BATTLES.
    - 
  -`battle_loop.py`
    -controls the turn of the battle, printing out relevant information
  -`llm_battle_controller.py`
    - controls the AI aspect of the battle
  -`game_loop.py'
    -contols the battle and wins, asking if player wants ot play again or not. if yes begins new battle.
  -`type_chart.py`
    - self explainatory. contains the current type chart with supereffective, not really effective, and regular effective with basic damage calculations including       for dual types
  -`move_analysis.py`
    - determines which moves are supereffective per active pokemon that the ai can use.  
## How Difficulty Works CURRENTLY 

If the player wins, the difficulty increases.

If the player loses, the difficulty decreases.

If the battle takes fewer moves, the difficulty changes more strongly.

If the battle takes more than 80 moves, only a small base adjustment is applied.


## Required Setup

Install the OpenAI package:

```bash
pip install openai
NOTE DIFFICULTY AND LLM BATTLE CONTROLLER CONTAIN VARIABLE THAT REPRESENTS OPEN API KEY IF YOU ARE HAVING ISSUES WITH OPEN API KEY MAY NEED TO MODIFIY THOSE TWO. 

## FUTURE WORK NEEDED:
OTHER STATS BESIDES HP, SPECIAL EFFECTS OF MOVES, STAB, HELD ITEMS, ABILITIES. 
